Now, let's say that we have a password which is password,
and the user enters it,
and the client generates the hashed form of this password.
So the hashed value of the password is going to be stored in the server.
So anybody has access to the password,
they would still not be able to see the password or authenticate themselves.
Now, let's talk about a problem that this raises,
which is two users with the same password.
You cannot demand unique passwords for every user,
which means that if two users,
Alice and Bob had the same password,
you run your same hashing algorithm that is going to result in
the same value for the equal passwords and that gets stored in the database.
How do you solve this problem?
We would solve this problem with salting.
Let's get to the definition of salting.
What salting really means is
a randomly generated unique data which is called salt for each user.
Now, think about this,
you have the hashed password and now you have a salt,
the hashed password for two users that have the same password might be the same.
But adding the salt to their password which are unique.
When they're appended to the hashed password,
that makes it a pretty unique value
that can be stored in the database and difficult to hack.
According to the OWASP Guidelines,
a salt is a fixed-length cryptographically strong random value
that is added to the input of
hash functions to create unique hashes for
every input regardless of the input not being unique.
In minded, you should never tell your users that the password is not unique.
Because what that does is that it allows the hacker
to break into the passwords even more quickly,
because it gives them a hint that this password exists in your system.